The Joe Rogan experience. Yeah. And you're what you're getting at is a,
a problem in politics is as politicians and political leaders,
I think F forgot to explain why we believe what we believe. Yes.
And that's pretty important. Um, you know, we'll,
I think too often talking points are relied upon,
and it's not that those talking points are false and that's necessarily,
but they're not persuasive because you haven't gone a couple layers deep
again. I think you talk about this a lot. Why are podcasts so popular?
They're popular because people want to hear a little bit more information.
They want to get a deeper understanding of why you think,
what you think people are ready to hear that they're ready for some nuance. Um,
that being said to being in politics, you wouldn't think,
you wouldn't think that we're getting any closer to nuanced conversations. And.
Uh, I think political conversations on podcasts are opening up a whole new door
where you understand people like Tosi Gabbard or Andrew Yang or Bernie Sanders,
the people that have had out I've had on this podcast.
One of the things that I've talked to people about, they,
I didn't know that Bernie was like a normal person. You hear him talk and you,
you know, it's always in these very quick sound bites on television. Know,
he's always yelling about wealth or race or something. He goes,
looks like a mad man. Yeah.
But then you sit down and talk to him for in a long form conversation.
You let him expand on his thoughts. You go, oh, he's a reasonable guy.
He just has this. These are his pre principles. These are, these are his ideas.
And he's not a cartoon.
Yeah. I mean, on a personal level,
most people in Congress are not exactly who you think they are. They,
they are just people. They make jokes. And we, of course, we, we,
we make small talk in the elevator. You know, these, these things happen. Um,
Bernie in particular, he's on the Senate side.
I don't really interact with him at all. TSI Gabbard. I know you mentioned her.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> um, you know, we, we, we do, we do have good conversations,
uh, that does happen. We disagree vigorously on, on lots of things.
What do you guys disagree on? Uh, Tosi in particular? Sure. Uh, well,
most things I would say, uh, one, one things she's quite outspoken about is, um,
is our involvement overseas. Uh she's she would generally say she's,
she's much more of an I isolationist than I am.
What I remind people when we're talking about that particular subject. Why,
why do we keep troops in Syria? Why do we keep troops in, in Iraq?
Why do we keep troops in Afghanistan? Isn't the war over? Um,
why don't we bring the boys back home?
And the answer is the says not a conventional war.
This is not something where you sign a peace treaty with a uniformed, uh, army.
It is, it is a different, it's a different situation.
We send guys like me over there so that they don't come here.
We send guys like me over there so that we keep pressure on them and, and,
and prevent them from whom in the operational space and timing to commit another
nine 11.
You have to understand that these people over there wake up every single day,
trying to plan another nine 11. It is, it is, it is what they do. And, uh,
we've already seen, uh, an increase in, in ISIS activity,
just from the draw down that we already did have in Syria. So, you know,
that's a, that's a fair disagreement again, but she's a really cool person.
And I want to, I brought upul just specifically, because we do talk and I,
and I, and I, I just like her as a person, we just disagree on things,
but there's a respect there.
To play devil's advocate.
Some would say that the reason why they wanna PLA plot another nine 11 is
because we're over there.
Yeah. I disagree with that. So let's, let's look at the bin Laden, um, example,
what exactly did we do to this guy? You know, well, we helped him, right.
Exactly. When he was fighting Soviets with the Mujahadeen.
Exactly in the, he was a Mahaine fighter. We helped him fight the Soviets.
We protected Saudi Arabia from invasion, from Saddam hue.
That's his Homeland and yetty hated us. And when we left,
we never occupied Saudi Arabia.
We left when they asked us to leave after we defended them, um,
and prevented another invasion from Saddam MUE after he invaded Kuwait,
what is it we did to make this guy.
So Matt and the answer is we didn't do anything objectively speaking.
He hates us because of our Western ideology. He hates us because he hates us.
And, and it's hard for us to understand cuz it's not logical. Uh,
but it is the truth. And, um, it's, it's, you know, so it's,
and it's the prime example of, of why we, this, this,
this is a long term fight and it's, um, it's not likely to go away anytime soon.
And the last thing I would say, the world is a very small place. We can,
when we pretend that we to nor things going on in the middle east,
we can pretend that they won't come here.
But the reality is that's a 12 hour flight and, and, and,
and the speed of information travels even faster. You know,
when we were seeing a lot of attacks in the us and in Europe,
when ISIS was at its peak, as its, as its peak strength,
that was because they were able to radicalize online. No,
to us that they've stopped having that power.
And it's because we actually took the fight to them.
Well, there,
there certainly are some conflicts between their ideology
and Western ideology, but why on Western values,
but why is it that they're dedicating their entire life to try to take down
America?
Well.
They, and there's a, this is always the question. It.
Is a question civilian and it's, and it's you,
you almost have to ask them exactly why, right? But I mean, at its core,
we are indels at, at its core, there's they, they're,
they're taking an extreme view of,
of Islamic fundamentalism and believing that we are indels.
That must be destroyed. I mean, that's at its core. Uh, there, there it's,
it's less political reasons, little bit more emotional reasoning. There has.
To be some,
some part of it because of our policies and some part of it because of our
actions. And I, I'm not, I'm.
Not so sure that we should always assume that it's our fault, that, that,
and I think that's a common, that's a common theme, uh,
in politics these days where anything bad happening must be America's fault,
must be decisions we made and it may be, but let's objectively make the case.
If that, if that's, if that's true,
I think there's an automatic assumption and I, it's not self evident to me.
But if we're in,
what are we in a hundred and how many countries do we have bases in?
What's the number? Do you know?
It's a lot. It might it's, it's definitely over a hundred. Yeah.
And if you were one of the people that is in one of those countries,
mm-hmm <affirmative> and you had to deal with that,
and you saw like the drone attacks in Yemen that have killed people in wedding
parties and the kind of that we hope never happens again,
but has happened in the past.
You can kind of understand why there would be a hate it against the number one
superpower in the world.
Well, opinions in these countries are not, are not homogenous.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> right. They're, they're, they're vastly diverse. There's a,
there's millions of people in Yemen, probably begging for us to come there.
Same with Iraq. Iraqis did not want us leaving. They knew this would go badly.
Um, but again, not all Iraqis, right?
So there's ones who.
Right. I mean, it just depends on who you talk to. Uh, so again, it's, it's,
it's, everything is more complex than a simple than a simple black and white
scenario where America's bad. Good. It's just, it's,
it's always more complex than that.
So you feel like if we did pull out of all these countries,
particularly pull out of the middle east Afghanistan and all the bases that we
have over there, that it would be, uh,
very similar to like what's going on in Iraq. What happened in Libya?
There's a power vacuum. The vacuum gets filled by bad.
Guys. It'll a hundred percent happen that way, you know, and it's,
there's not a doubt in my mind. There's not a doubt in any expert's minds.
Who's looking at this. I would also say when we're,
when we have a base somewhere, that is, that is at the, that is,
that is at the discretion of, of that, uh, local government. There's,
there's no cases here except in the case of Syria, uh, where, you know,
their local government basad doesn't want us there. That's the only case I,
that I can think of in, in that, that we don't have an agreement,
a status of forces agreement with the government there. So I, I, I,
I don't think it's quite right to paint it as some kind of imperialistic
occupation. That's just, that's just not how we,
how we do things and You right over there. Yeah.
I'm just making sure this sound is off. <laugh>.
Good for you before anything actually did happen now, now, um,
do you think that this is a,
a political ploy that this is a popular to say,
because so many people that have, uh, you know,
a cursory understanding of foreign policy,
they look at our military bases overseas and they say, Hey,
let's bring those people back. Let's end these wars.
Let's stop spending this money, but you're not the only one that's told me this.
And particularly not the only one that's told me this that's has a military
background.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> saying it's virtually impossible to prevent any of this
stuff without having bases over there.
That's a hundred percent, right? Yeah. I mean, and you, you need,
you need that relationship with the host nation, of course,
that you wanna partner with. And that's generally what we do,
especially in the special operations community.
When we're in a hundred plus countries, we're there to partner with them.
We're not there doing our own thing. We're there partnering, training and,
and equipping and, and enhancing their capabilities. So that,
that's part of what we're doing. The, and the other part is just knowledge.
We want to know what's happening. If we don't know what's happening, why do,
why do we have embasies everywhere? Mm-hmm,
<affirmative> part of that is just relationships and knowledge and understanding
of what's going on, because we can't look at it from afar and actually get it.
Uh, it just, it doesn't work that way. So, and, and, and again, and I'm,
I'm not,
I think it is reactionary to just assume that we have bad intentions all the
time and that everything is America's fault. I hear that constantly, um,
mostly coming from the left, but,
but by isolation is sentiment certainly comes from the right as well. And, uh,
and it's a reaction,
it's a reaction to the Iraq war and some of the mistakes we made there,
it's a reaction to Vietnam. It's never, that's never left the American psyche.
Mm-hmm, <affirmative>, uh, in many ways, but these,
these matters are complex and they,
they deserve complex reasoning and analysis and a little on understanding.
And I, I just think that's how we should look at it. We, we don't,
we don't say that we're always right. That's, that's not what I'm saying.